<title>Build Procedures</title>

<h2>Build Procedures</h2>

<p>
Follow these steps to build a new release of System.Data.SQLite (SDS).
Unless otherwise noted, all steps need to be done in the order specified.
</p>

<p>You will need a Visual Studio 2008, 2010, or 2010 SP1 development environment for this build.</p>

<p>
Thanks to the hard work of Joe Mistachkin, the build environment has been setup
using modular solution and property files.
<ul>
SQLite.NET.2008.sln is the top level solution for VS2008.<br />
SQLite.NET.2010.sln is the top level solution for VS2010.<br />
</ul>
<p>In general, files with 2008 in the name (eg. SQLite.Interop.2008.vcproj) 
or files ending in .vsprops are project and property files for the VS2008 solution. 
Files with 2010 in the name (eg. SQLite.Interop.2010.vcxproj) or files ending in .props are 
property and project files for the VS2010 solution.  When making changes, 
you should make changes to both to keep them in sync.
</p>

<p>
You can either [./build.wiki#manual | manually build] the SDS using the supplied Visual Studio solutions,
or follow the steps outlined in the [./build.wiki#automated | Automated Build] section below.
</p>

<a name="assumptions"></a>
<h2>Build Assumptions</h2>
<ol>
  <li>
    We want to ship managed binaries that rely on the .NET Framework 2.0
    SP2.  The .NET Framework 2.0 is very widely deployed and binaries produced for it can
    also be referenced and used successfully from projects using the .NET Framework
    4.0.
  </li>

  <li>
    We want to ship native binaries that rely on the Visual C++ 2008 SP1
    Runtime.
  </li>

  <li>
    We do not want to ship the "monster DLL" (i.e. the "mixed-mode"
    System.Data.SQLite.dll that includes native and managed code).  This
    will make it far simpler to maintain and ship the included core SQLite code
    (in the file "SQLite.Interop.dll").
  </li>

  <li>
    The machine used to prepare the official releases will have the
    [http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/en/details.aspx?FamilyID=ab99342f-5d1a-413d-8319-81da479ab0d7 | .NET Framework 3.5 SP1]
    and the corresponding [http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyId=E6E1C3DF-A74F-4207-8586-711EBE331CDC | SDK] installed.
  </li>

  <li>
    The machine used to prepare the official releases will have [http://www.jrsoftware.org/isdl.php | Inno Setup 5.4.2]
    or higher installed in "%ProgramFiles%\Inno Setup 5" or
    "%ProgramFiles(x86)%\Inno Setup 5" for an 64-bit machines.  Alternatively,
    the InnoSetup directory may be included in the PATH environment variable.
  </li>

  <li>
    The string "&lt;root&gt;" represents the root of your source tree for
    System.Data.SQLite.
  </li>
</ol>

<a name="manual"></a>
<h2>Manual Build</h2>

<ol>
  <li>Make sure the version information is correct for SQLite in the following
  files:

  <ul>
    &lt;root&gt;\SQLite.Interop\props\sqlite3.vsprops<br />
    &lt;root&gt;\SQLite.Interop\props\sqlite3.props<br />
  </ul>

  You'll need to update the SQLITE_MANIFEST_VERSION and SQLITE_RC_VERSION properties.
  This version number should track the release versions of SQLite 
  (ie. [http://www.sqlite.org/changes.html | 3.7.x]).
  </li>

  <li>Make sure the version information is correct for System.Data.SQLite in
  the following files:

  <ul>
    &lt;root&gt;\SQLite.Interop\props\SQLite.Interop.vsprops<br />
    &lt;root&gt;\SQLite.Interop\props\SQLite.Interop.props<br />
    &lt;root&gt;\SQLite.Interop\src\win\interop.h<br />
    &lt;root&gt;\System.Data.SQLite\AssemblyInfo.cs<br />
    &lt;root&gt;\System.Data.SQLite.Linq\AssemblyInfo.cs<br />
    &lt;root&gt;\System.Data.SQLite\LINQ\SQLiteFactory_Linq.cs<br />
  </ul>

  You'll need to update the SQLITE_MANIFEST_VERSION and SQLITE_RC_VERSION properties
  in the .vsprops and .props files, and the INTEROP_VERSION define in interop.h.
  This version number should track the release versions of the System.Data.SQLite packages
  (ie. [./news.wiki | 1.0.x]).
  </li>

  <li>Open the appropriate solution for your build platform.

    <ul>
        SQLite.NET.2008.sln is the top level solution for VS2008.<br />
        SQLite.NET.2010.sln is the top level solution for VS2010.<br />
    </ul>
  </li>

  <li>Select the desired solution configuration (eg. ReleaseNativeOnly) and 
  and solution platform (eg. x64), then "Build->Rebuild Solution".

  Alternatively, you can select "Build->Batch Build", "Select All", and then "Rebuild".
  </li>

</ol>

<a name="automated"></a>
<h2>Automated Build</h2>

<ol>
  <li>Make sure the version information is correct for SQLite in the following
  files:

  <ul>
      &lt;root&gt;\SQLite.Interop\props\sqlite3.vsprops<br />
      &lt;root&gt;\SQLite.Interop\props\sqlite3.props<br />
  </ul>

  You'll need to update the SQLITE_MANIFEST_VERSION and SQLITE_RC_VERSION properties.
  This version number should track the release versions of SQLite 
  (ie. [http://www.sqlite.org/changes.html | 3.7.x]).
  </li>

  <li>Make sure the version information is correct for System.Data.SQLite in
  the following files:

  <ul>
    &lt;root&gt;\SQLite.Interop\props\SQLite.Interop.vsprops<br />
    &lt;root&gt;\SQLite.Interop\props\SQLite.Interop.props<br />
    &lt;root&gt;\SQLite.Interop\src\win\interop.h<br />
    &lt;root&gt;\System.Data.SQLite\AssemblyInfo.cs<br />
    &lt;root&gt;\System.Data.SQLite.Linq\AssemblyInfo.cs<br />
    &lt;root&gt;\System.Data.SQLite\LINQ\SQLiteFactory_Linq.cs<br />
  </ul>

  You'll need to update the SQLITE_MANIFEST_VERSION and SQLITE_RC_VERSION properties
  in the .vsprops and .props files, and the INTEROP_VERSION define in interop.h.
  This version number should track the release versions of the System.Data.SQLite packages
  (ie. [./news.wiki | 1.0.x]).
  </li>

  <li>Make sure the "&lt;root&gt;\bin" and "&lt;root&gt;\obj" directories are completely
  free of all output files.  In theory, you should be able to simply delete these directories.
  </li>

  <li>Open a normal command prompt window with "cmd.exe".<br />

  <i>If you are using Visual Studio 2010, you may need to open a 
  "Windows SDK Command Prompt" from the "Microsoft Windows SDK" start menu
  and perform your builds there.</i></li>

  <li>Change the current directory to "&lt;root&gt;\Setup".</li>

  <li>Enter the following command to build the binaries for Win32 (x86):

  [./build.wiki#build.bat | build.bat] ReleaseNativeOnly Win32<br />

  <i>You may need to enter the command "setenv /x86" first if you are using a 
  Windows SDK or Visual Studio command prompt.</i>
  </li>

  <li>Make sure everything succeeds with no errors; the log file
  "%TEMP%\System.Data.SQLite.Build_ReleaseNativeOnly_Win32_Unknown.log"
  may be checked if any errors should occur.</li>

  <li>Enter the following command to build the binaries for x64:

  build.bat ReleaseNativeOnly x64<br />

  <i>You may need to enter the command "setenv /x64" first if you are using a 
  Windows SDK or Visual Studio command prompt.</i>
  </li>

  <li>Make sure everything succeeds with no errors; the log file
  "%TEMP%\System.Data.SQLite.Build_ReleaseNativeOnly_x64_Unknown.log" may
  be checked if any errors should occur.</li>

  <li>Enter the following command to build the setup binaries for Win32 AND
  x64 (unfortunately, it is not possible to build the setup using the
  InnoSetup GUI.  It must be done using the provided command line tools due to its dynamic
  nature):

  bake_all.bat
  </li>

  <li>Make sure everything succeeds with no errors.  InnoSetup should produce
  "success" messages very similar to the following:

  Successful compile (X.XXX sec). Resulting Setup program filename is: abc
  </li>
</ol>

<a name="build.bat"></a>
<h3>build.bat Desription</h3>

<p>
  build.bat is the top level batch file for build automation and should be called
  with the configuration and platform to build:
  <ul>
    build.bat &lt;CONFIGURATION&gt; &lt;PLATFORM&gt;<br />
  </ul>
  This starts by setting 3 environment variables:
  <ul>
    ROOT (eg. &lt;pwd&gt;\..)<br />
    CONFIGURATION (eg. ReleaseNativeOnly)<br />
    PLATFORM (eg. Win32)<br />
  </ul>
  These are used to call another .bat file (eg. set_ReleaseNativeOnly_x64.bat)
  which calls set_ReleaseNativeOnly.bat to setup more variables to specify
  which .NET Framework to use:
  <ul>
    NETFX35ONLY=1 - set from set_ReleaseNativeOnly.bat<br />
    YEAR=2008 - set from set_ReleaseNativeOnly.bat<br />
    YEARS=%YEAR% - set from set_ReleaseNativeOnly.bat<br />
  </ul>
  build.bat attempts to set additional variables based on the chosen
  and available .NET Framework.
  <ul>
    YEAR (eg. 2008)<br />
    FRAMEWORKDIR (eg. %windir%\Microsoft.NET\Framework\v3.5)<br />
  </ul>
  The PATH variable is updated to include the directory specified by FRAMEWORKDIR.<br />
  At this point, several variables are setup for the call to 
  [http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/0k6kkbsd.aspx | MSBuild]
  <ul>
    SOLUTION (eg. .\SQLite.NET.2008.sln)
    TARGET (eg. Rebuild)
    LOGGING
  </ul>
  MSBuild.exe is called to build the solution.
</p>

