<title>System.Data.SQLite Download Page</title>

<h3>SQLite Download Page</h3>
<table width="100%" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <td colspan="4">
      <b>Source Code</b>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="10">&nbsp;</td>
    <td valign="top" align="right">
      <a name="dotnetsrc"></a>
      <a href="sqlite-dotnetsrc-1xxyyzz.zip">sqlite-dotnetsrc-1xxyyzz.zip</a>
      <br />(#.## MiB)
    </td>
    <td width="5"></td>
    <td valign="top">
      This ZIP archive contains all source code for System.Data.SQLite 1.0.69.0 (3.7.6)
      combined into a single archive file.<br />
      (sha1: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx)
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="4">
      <b>Precompiled Binaries For Windows</b>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="10">&nbsp;</td>
    <td valign="top" align="right">
      <a name="dotnet"></a>
      <a href="sqlite-dotnet-1xxyyzz.exe">sqlite-dotnet-1xxyyzz.exe</a>
      <br />(#.## MiB)
    </td>
    <td width="5"></td>
    <td valign="top">
      This setup package will install all the runtime components
      for System.Data.SQLite 1.0.69.0 (3.7.6).<br />
      (sha1: xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx)
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="4">
      <b>Legacy Versions</b>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="10">&nbsp;</td>
    <td valign="top" align="right">
      <a name="legacy"></a>
      <a href="http://sqlite.phxsoftware.com">SQLite-1.0.66.0-setup.exe</a>
      <br />(3.2 MiB)
    </td>
    <td width="5"></td>
    <td valign="top">
      Legacy versions, as well as the original support forums, may still be 
      found at [http://sqlite.phxsoftware.com], though there have been no updates 
      to this version since April of 2010.
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h3>Build Product Names</h3>

<p>
  Beginning with System.Data.SQLite version 1.0.69.0 (3.7.6), the following 
  templates will be used for the names of the build products:
  <ul>
    1. sqlite-product-version.zip<br />
    2. sqlite-product-version.tar.gz<br />
    3. sqlite-product-version.exe<br />
    4. sqlite-product-date.zip<br />
  </ul>
</p>
<p>
  Templates (1) and (2) are used for source-code products. Template (1) is used for
  generic source-code products and templates (2) is used for source-code products
  that are generally only useful on unix-like platforms. Template (3) is used for
  precompiled binaries products like the setup package. Template (4) is used for unofficial
  pre-release "snapshots" of source code.
</p>
<p>
  The version is encoded so that filenames sort in order of increasing version number
  when viewed using "ls". For version 1.X.Y the filename encoding is 1XXYY00.
  For branch version 1.X.Y.Z, the encoding is 1XXYYZZ.
</p>
<p>
  The date in template (4) is of the form: YYYYMMDDHHMM
</p>

<h3>Canonical Source Code</h3>

<p>
  The canonical System.Data.SQLite source code is maintained in a Fossil
  repository that is available for anonymous read-only access. Anyone can view the
  repository contents and download historical versions of individual files or
  ZIP archives of historical check-ins.
</p>
<p>
  The complete source tree for any [/timeline?n=20&y=ci | check-in] may
  always be downloaded using the "ZIP archive" link available from the check-in detail page.
</p>

