<title>Support</title>

<h3>Mailing Lists</h3>

<p>SQLite has an active mailing list and support community, and users of this version of
System.Data.SQLite are encouraged to use these for support questions.</p>

<p>Three separate mailing lists have been established to help support
SQLite:</p>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://sqlite.org:8080/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/sqlite-announce">
sqlite-announce</a> - announcements of new releases or significant developments.</li>
<li><a href="http://sqlite.org:8080/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/sqlite-users">
sqlite-users</a> - general user discussion; most postings belong here.</li>
<li><a href="http://sqlite.org:8080/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/sqlite-dev">
sqlite-dev</a> - developer conversations; for people who have or aspire to
have write permission on the SQLite source code repository.</li>
</ul>

<p>
Most users of SQLite will want to join the
<a href="http://sqlite.org:8080/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/sqlite-announce">
sqlite-announce</a> list and many will want to join the
<a href="http://sqlite.org:8080/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/sqlite-users">
sqlite-users</a> list.  The
<a href="http://sqlite.org:8080/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/sqlite-dev">
sqlite-dev</a> list is more specialized and appeals to a narrower audience.
Off-site archives of the
<a href="http://sqlite.org:8080/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/sqlite-users">
sqlite-users</a> list are available at:
</p>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://www.mail-archive.com/sqlite-users%40sqlite.org/">http://www.mail-archive.com/sqlite-users%40sqlite.org/</a><br>
<li><a href="http://marc.info/?l">http://marc.info/?l=sqlite-users&r=1&w=2</a><br>
<li><a href="http://news.gmane.org/gmane.comp.db.sqlite.general">http://news.gmane.org/gmane.comp.db.sqlite.general</a>
</ul>

<h3>Direct E-Mail</h3>

<p>Use the mailing list. Please do <b>not</b> send email directly to the authors of SQLite or System.Data.SQLite
unless:</p>

<ul>
<li>You have or intend to acquire <a href="http://www.sqlite.org/draft/support.html">professional support contract</a>
<li>You are working on an open source project.
</ul>

<p>You are welcomed to use SQLite in closed source, proprietary, and/or commercial projects and to 
ask questions about such use on the public mailing list. But please do not ask to receive free direct 
technical support. The software is free; direct technical support is not.</p>


              <h1>Documentation</h1>

  *  [./release.wiki | Release Procedures]
